README.rst, before:

bpylist2 |pypi version| |Build Status|
======================================

This is a fork of Marketcircle/bpylist, which is hopefully more responsive to PRs.

Implementation of the `Apple's Binary
Plist <https://developer.apple.com/legacy/library/documentation/Darwin/Reference/ManPages/man5/plist.5.html>`__
and the NSKeyedArchiver format

Usage
-----

Binary Plists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Generating bplist is easy, and similar to the ``plistlib`` module in
Python's Standard Library

.. code:: python

    from bpylist import bplist

    bpylist.generate(my_object)

Reading is easy as well. The ``generate`` function takes a bytes object
and returns the top-level object of the binary plist.

.. code:: python

    from bpylist import bplist

    with open('myplist.plist', 'rb') as f:
        bpylist.parse(f.read())

KeyedArchives
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``NSKeyedArchiver`` is an Apple proprietary serialization format for
Cocoa objects. ``bpylist`` supports reading and writing
``NSKeyedArchiver`` compatible archives. The API is similar to the
binary plist API.

**Unarchiving an object**

.. code:: python

    from bpylist import archiver

    with open('my_archived_object', 'rb') as f:
        archiver.unarchive(f.read())

**Archiving an object**

.. code:: python

    from bpylist import archiver

    my_object = { 'foo':'bar', 'some_array': [1,2,3,4] }
    archiver.archive(my_object)

Custom objects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you archive includes classes that are not "standard" Cocoa classes
(``NSString``, ``NSNumber``, ``NSDate``, ``NSNull``, ``NSDictionary`` or
``NSArray``), you register a Python class that the Cocoa class maps to and
register it.

The simplest way to define a class is by providing a python dataclass, for
example you define a class with all the fields of the archived object:

.. code:: python

    @dataclasses.dataclass
    class MyClass(DataclassArchiver):
        int_field: int = 0
        str_field: str = ""
        float_field: float = -1.1
        list_field: list = dataclasses.field(default_factory=list)

Alternatively you can implement custom unarchiving code.  

The Python class needs to implement the ``encode_archive`` and
``decode_archive`` methods.

.. code:: python

    ## Define a Python Class

    from bpylist import archiver

    class MyClass:
        first_property = None
        second_property = None

        def __init__(self, first_property, second_property):
            self.first_property = first_property
            self.second_property = second_property

        def encode_archive(self, archive):
            archive.encode('first_property', self.first_property)
            archive.encode('second_property', self.second_property)

        def decode_archive(archive):
            first = archive.decode('first_property')
            second = archive.decode('second_property')
            return MyClass(first, second)

When the mapper class is defined, register it with unarchiver:

.. code:: python

    ## Register the class for the Cocoa class 'MyCocoaClass'

    archiver.update_class_map({ 'MyCocoaClass': FooArchive })


How to publish a new version to PyPI
------------------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install twine wheel
    $ python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
    $ twine upload dist/*

License
-------

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2017 Marketcircle Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

.. |pypi version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/bpylist2.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/bpylist2/
.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/xa4a/bpylist2.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/xa4a/bpylist2

Commit message:

Replace custom bplist extension with stdlib plistlib. This requires Python 3.8.

README.rst, after:

bpylist2 |pypi version| |Build Status|
======================================

This is a fork of Marketcircle/bpylist, which is hopefully more responsive to PRs.

Implementation of the `Apple's Binary
Plist <https://developer.apple.com/legacy/library/documentation/Darwin/Reference/ManPages/man5/plist.5.html>`__
and the NSKeyedArchiver format

Usage
-----

Binary Plists
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For reading and writing plain PLists please use stdlib `plistlib` library.

KeyedArchives
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``NSKeyedArchiver`` is an Apple proprietary serialization format for
Cocoa objects. ``bpylist`` supports reading and writing
``NSKeyedArchiver`` compatible archives. The API is similar to the
binary plist API.

**Unarchiving an object**

.. code:: python

    from bpylist import archiver

    with open('my_archived_object', 'rb') as f:
        archiver.unarchive(f.read())

**Archiving an object**

.. code:: python

    from bpylist import archiver

    my_object = { 'foo':'bar', 'some_array': [1,2,3,4] }
    archiver.archive(my_object)

Custom objects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you archive includes classes that are not "standard" Cocoa classes
(``NSString``, ``NSNumber``, ``NSDate``, ``NSNull``, ``NSDictionary`` or
``NSArray``), you register a Python class that the Cocoa class maps to and
register it.

The simplest way to define a class is by providing a python dataclass, for
example you define a class with all the fields of the archived object:

.. code:: python

    @dataclasses.dataclass
    class MyClass(DataclassArchiver):
        int_field: int = 0
        str_field: str = ""
        float_field: float = -1.1
        list_field: list = dataclasses.field(default_factory=list)

Alternatively you can implement custom unarchiving code.  

The Python class needs to implement the ``encode_archive`` and
``decode_archive`` methods.

.. code:: python

    ## Define a Python Class

    from bpylist import archiver

    class MyClass:
        first_property = None
        second_property = None

        def __init__(self, first_property, second_property):
            self.first_property = first_property
            self.second_property = second_property

        def encode_archive(self, archive):
            archive.encode('first_property', self.first_property)
            archive.encode('second_property', self.second_property)

        def decode_archive(archive):
            first = archive.decode('first_property')
            second = archive.decode('second_property')
            return MyClass(first, second)

When the mapper class is defined, register it with unarchiver:

.. code:: python

    ## Register the class for the Cocoa class 'MyCocoaClass'

    archiver.update_class_map({ 'MyCocoaClass': FooArchive })


How to publish a new version to PyPI
------------------------------------

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install twine wheel
    $ python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
    $ twine upload dist/*

License
-------

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2017 Marketcircle Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

.. |pypi version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/bpylist2.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/bpylist2/
.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/xa4a/bpylist2.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/xa4a/bpylist2
